https://python.libhunt.com/

1. doit
doit comes from the idea of bringing the power of build-tools to execute any kind of task

python logo 
pip install doit
People often compare doit to tools like make, grunt, rake, scons, snakemake.

They appreciate doit strong features, flexibility, simplicity of authoring and ease of use.

2. Textual and Rich
https://github.com/Textualize/rich
https://github.com/Textualize/textual
pip install rich
python -m rich

1. Matplotlib
A must for data analyzing, Matplotlib is a numerical plotting library widely used in the Python scientific computing community.

matplotlibimage

 

2. Pandas
Pandas provides fast, flexible, and expressive data structures designed to make working with structured (tabular, multidimensional, potentially heterogeneous) and time series data both easy and intuitive.

pandasimage

 

3. Requests
Is a must have for any python developers. It allows you to send HTTP/1.1 requests, add headers, form data, multipart files, and parameters with simple Python dictionaries, and access the response data in the same way.

requestsimage
4. SQLAlchemy
Provides a full suite of well-known enterprise-level persistence patterns, designed for efficient and high-performing database access, adapted into a simple and Pythonic domain language.

sqlalchemyimage

5. NumPy
Provides advance math functionalities and a fundamental package for scientific computing with Python.

numpyimage

 

6. Pyglet
Provides an object-oriented programming interface for developing games and other visually-rich applications for Windows, Mac OS X and Linux. This is the engine in which the popular game Minecraft was made.

pygletimage

 

7. BeautifulSoup
It may be slow but it’s xml and html parsing library is very useful for beginners.


beautifulsoupimage

 

8. SciPy
SciPy is one of the core packages that make up the SciPy stack. It provides many user-friendly and efficient numerical routines such as routines for numerical integration and optimization.

scipyimage

 

9. Pygame
Pygame provides a very easy to use and powerful Python interface to the Simple Directmedia Library (SDL) platform independent graphic, audio and input libraries.pygame_logo

 

10. Scrapy
Provides a fast high-level screen scraping and web crawling framework. It can be used for a wide range of purposes, from data mining to monitoring and automated testing.

scrapy_architecture

 

11. Twisted
Twisted is an event-driven networking engine written in Python and licensed under the open source MIT license. Twisted runs on Python 2 and an ever growing subset also works with Python 3.

web-process

 

12. Pillow
A friendly fork of PIL (Python Imaging Library). It is more user friendly than PIL and is a must have for anyone who works with images.

pillowimage

 

13. wxPython
WxPython is a wrapper around wxWidgets for the Python language.

wxPythonOSX

 

14. pywin32
Pywin32 is a python library which provides some useful methods and classes for interacting with windows.

pythonwin

 

15. iPython
Based on an architecture that provides parallel and distributed computing. IPython enables parallel applications to be developed, executed, debugged and monitored interactively.

ipython

 

16. Nose
Provides an alternate test discovery and running process for unittest, one that is intended to mimic the behavior of py.test as much as is reasonably possible without resorting to too much magic.

nosepython

 

17. PyGTK
Lets you to easily create programs with a graphical user interface using the Python programming language.

pygtk

 

18. Flask
Flask is a Python web framework built with a small core and many extensions.

flask

 

19. SymPy
SymPy is an open source Python library for symbolic mathematics. It aims to become a full-featured computer algebra system (CAS) while keeping the code as simple as possible in order to be comprehensible and easily extensible. SymPy is written entirely in Python and does not require any external libraries.

sympy

 

20. Fabric
Fabric is a Python library and command-line tool for streamlining the use of SSH for application deployment or systems administration tasks. It provides a basic suite of operations for executing local or remote shell commands and uploading/downloading files, as well as auxiliary functionality such as prompting the running user for input, or aborting execution.